Fzv extra rules (#9)
TheFifthRider/fate-slash-fate: docs/aspects.md

# All About Aspects

Aspects codify features of the world, the environment, the situation, and your character. They are simple, plain truths that describe both the physical and the abstract. 

> There are two primary ways to use Aspects: Invocation and Compels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two primary ways to use Aspects:  invoking them and compelling them.
```

## Clarifications

### "Aspects Are True"

Because Aspects Are True, any object or condition described by an Aspect carries narrative weight and sometimes mechanical impact. If you have taken a Consequence for a ***Broken Hand***, it's not just for flavor; you probably cannot handwrite a letter. 

Likewise, any significant setpieces or rules may become codified as an Aspect with the GM's discretion. Though, not every single little thing needs to become an Aspect. 

Of course, this also means that once an Aspect *stops* being true, the Aspect (and any of its Free Invokes) can disappear. If a building was ***On Fire*** but no longer is, then you can no longer invoke that Aspect.

### Boosts 

Boosts are temporary type of Aspect usually granted as a bonus or a consolation under the [Four Actions](Four-Actions)' outcomes. Boosts have 1 Free Invoke, but disappear as soon as you use them.

> Thus, Boosts are best named for temporary things, such as a ***Burst of Energy*** or ***Dropped Guard***.

Reviewer: Move this after Using Aspects -- your last paragraph just set up the two ways to use Aspects

## Using Aspects

> 

Reviewer: Nit: rule of thumb with headers -- only include a header if you have text after the header. Otherwise, the header might just be adding noise.

### Invoking Aspects

When an Aspect would reasonably factor into an Action, you may Invoke it for 1FP. 

An Aspect may have "Free Invokes", temporary points attached to an Aspect so that you do not need to spend Fate Points. They typically result from Creating An Advantage.

One major benefit of Free Invokes is that they can be stacked, even across Aspects and Boosts, so long as it is narratively justifiable. So, if you have 2 Free Invokes on one Aspect and 1 Free Invoke on another, and you can spend as many or as few of those 3 as you like on one Action.

However, you can only spend 1FP toward Invocation per Action, though you can spend that in addition to Free Invokes.

??? warning

>     Invoking an enemy's Character Aspects can be a valuable strategy, but it comes with a significant risk: "hostile invokes" paid with Fate Points can grant that Fate Point to the character whose Aspect is being invoked!

Reviewer: We'll need to add admonitions support to the yaml for these to render appropriately -- https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/

Author: *i realized this too late*

#### What Invocation Can Do:

1. Add +2 per invoke to your own Roll.
2. Add +2 per invoke to someone else's Roll against Passive Opposition
3. Add +2 per invoke to someone or something's Passive Opposition.

> 4. Reroll all four of your Fate Dice. (Recommended most for negative rolls)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Reroll all four of your Fate Dice. (Recommended when you roll -3 or lower)
```

Fate Points can famously be spent to "Declare A Story Detail", but this is not an Invocation.

### Compelling Aspects

!!! tip "You're doing WHAT now?"
    **Compelling is not Invoking!!!!!!!!!!**

> Compels are used to complicate the players' fates by drawing upon the natural impliations of Aspects: "Because x, shouldn't y?"

Reviewer: NPCs are compellable!
```suggestion
Compels are used to complicate a character's fate by drawing upon the natural implications of Aspects: "Because x, shouldn't y?"
```

> A building being ***On Fire*** could be Compelled to push a character to flee instead of retrieving an artifact from the wreckage. 

> A character who is ***Contracted To A Master*** may be Compelled to throw themself into harm's way in order to protect that Master. 

#### What Happens When You Compel

Any player can propose a Compel, not just the GM. A player can even propose a Compel for their own character, as well as for NPCs. 

You are not required to accept a Compel, especially if you feel that the proposal is out of character.

Compels are a choice for the player to make, not necessarily their character. For example, accepting a Compel does not mean that a character willingly gives into their temptations or knowingly causes a problem. 

#### Cost and Reward 

In vanilla Fate Core, accepting a Compel rewards the character with a Fate Point, but rejecting a Compel *costs* a Fate Point. This can feel punishing, effectively costing the player 2 Fate Points, and can complicate refusals based upon character interpretations. 

> Thus, in Fate/moon, **Accepting a Compel rewards 1 FP, but rejecting a Compel costs nothing.** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, in FATE/Moon, **Accepting a Compel rewards 1 FP, but rejecting a Compel costs nothing.** 
```
